# Intermediate SQL

## Join Expressions

A join operation is a Cartesian product which requires tuples in the two relations match (under some condition). It also specifies the attributes that are present in the result of the join

### Join Types

- **Inner Join**: Default when use `JOIN`. Returning combination of tables. Returning only both have a same row. Also need to specify the predicate to make a connection.

  normally with `JOIN` keyword, it is `INNER JOIN`.

  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM student JOIN takes ON student.ID = takes.ID;
  ```

  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM student INNER JOIN takes ON student.ID = takes.ID;
  ```

  This query also returns same results as above.

  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM student, takes WHERE student.ID = takes.ID;
  ```

- **Outer Join**:

  An extension of join operation that avoids loss of information.

  Computes join and then add tuples form one relation that does not match tupes in the other relation to the result of the join.

  Using `NULL` value for non existing value.

  left outer join

  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM student LEFT OUTER JOIN takes;
  ```

  right outer join

  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM student RIGHT OUTER JOIN takes;
  ```

  full outer join

  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM student FULL OUTER JOIN takes;
  ```

### Join conditions

- **Natural**: Operate join by matching tuples with the same values for all common attributes

  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM student NATURAL JOIN takes;
  ```

  To avoid the danger of equating attributes erroneously, use `USING` keyowrd to specifey exact columns to be equated.

  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM student NATURAL JOIN takes USING (ID);
  ```

- **ON (predicate)**: Allows a general predicate over the relations being joined
- **USING (attribute_1, attribute_2 ... )**: attributes set that becomes condition to join.

## Views

View is virtual relation.

```sql
CREATE VIEW <VIEW_NAME> AS <QUERY EXPRESSION>;
```

You can use this view to query, but actual data table does not change at all.

Materialized view allows to copy table into actual another snapshot table.

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW <VIEW_NAME> AS <QUERY EXPRESSION>;
```

You can refresh it if this view is outdated.

```sql
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW <VIEW_NAME>;
```

If want to update this view, should be only _simple view_:

```sql
INSERT INTO <VIEW_NAME> values (V1, V2 ... VN);
```

- `from` clause only have one database relation
- column not using aggregate function
- any attribute not listed in select, can be set as null
- query does not have group by or having
- not distinct

## Transactions

Unit of the work, and it's execution should be atomic.

Start of transaction:

- begin transction

End of transaction:

- commit: Successfully done
- rollback: Nothing had occured.

## Integrity Constraints

- not null: declare field is not null
- unique( A1, A2, ... An ): unique specification states ( A1, A2, ... An ) form candidate key. It's allowed to be null.
- check(P) : predicate P must satisfied by every tuple in a relation. If it becomes complex, e.g. use P that include subquery, have to check everytime that dependent data changes.
- assertion: predicate wish database to always satisfy.
  ```sql
  CREATE ASSERTION <assertion-name> check (<predicate>);
  ```

TODO: Referrential integrity

## SQL Data Types and Schemas

- Built-in types: date, time, timestamp,interval
- Large object type: Blob, Clob. Query returns pointer of this object not object it self.
- user defined type
  ```sql
  CREATE TYPE <type-name> as numeric(12,2) final;
  ```
- user defined domain: difference with type is, can get constraints to the domain

  ```sql
  CREATE DOMAIN <domain-name> char(20) not null;
  ```

  ```sql
  CREATE DOMAIN degree_level varchar(10)
    CONSTRAINT degree_level_test
        CHECK (VALUE IN ('A', 'B', 'C'));
  ```

## Index Definition in SQL

We don't want to read every record to find specific value out of it. Index allows specific values for the attribute efficiently by have relation.

```sql
CREATE INDEX <name> on <relation-name> (attribute);
```

## Authorization

- Privilege types: Read(`select`), Insert(`insert`), Update(`update`), Delete(`delete`) // `all` // `reference`- to create foreign key

```sql
CREATE ROLE <role-name>;
```

```sql
GRANT ROLE <role-name> to <users>;
```

```sql
GRANT <privilege> on <table> to <users>;
```
